---
layout : post
title  :  "Mini PC: a Viable Desktop Replacement in 2024"
date   :   2024-11-21 08:50
tags   : [Hardware, Mini PC]
---

Several months ago I started looking for something that would replace the
sluggish Android TV system installed on my TV. After doing some research, I got
introduced to the world of mini PCs. These small form factor computers are a
great alternative to traditional desktops and laptops. They are powerful,
portable, and affordable. In this post, I will discuss the benefits of mini PCs
and why you should consider getting one.

## What is a mini pc

Mini PCs are small form factor computers that are designed to be compact. They
are usually smaller than a Mac mini. The reason why they are so small is that
they use a low-power processor, usually designed for laptops. Because they are
not so space-constrained like laptops are, they usually have better cooling
which means they can run slightly faster with better temperatures. Although
these are small very tiny PCs with laptop chips, not all of them are low
performance, low power machines. There is a wide variety of mini PCs available
in the market, ranging from low power consumption PCs ideal for server
applications to high performance desktop replacements.

## Low power consumption pc

I already have a spare desktop PC that I don't use anymore. It's a it's a nearly
10-year-old machine with an Intel Core i5 6600K processor. It's still a decent
machine, but it's not very power efficient. It consumes around 100 watts of
power when idle. I wanted to replace it with something that consumes much much
less power, so it can stay on all day without costing me too much. I started
looking for low power consumption PCs and came across the Intel N100 processor.
This chip consumes around 5-10 watts of power when idle, which is 10 times less
than my old desktop PC. Essentially, it's a modern version of the my old Skylake
processor, but with a much lower power consumption and modern features like
quick sync and hardware decoding for 4k video.

I wasn't sure if the Intel N100 would be powerful enough for my needs, but I
thought that if I don't like it, I could always return it if I buy it from
Amazon. I bought a [Trigkey G4][1] with 500GB of storage and 16GB of RAM (which
is single channel) for around £150.

I was pleasantly surprised by how well it performed. It was able to handle all
the tasks I threw at it, including web browsing, video streaming, and
downloading stuff in the background. For the most part it fairly quiet, so you
could sleep beside it. The only time it gets loud is when you're installing
something or running a heavy task. I was very happy with my purchase and decided
to keep it. It came with Windows 11 preinstalled which I immediately replaced
with Arch Linux and KDE Plasma. I decided for a regular desktop environment
because it wasn't going to be used just by myself, but also by my fiancée.

### The setup

I connected the mini PC to my TV using an HDMI cable. I also connected a USB
dongle to a remote-like keyboard and trackpad combo. The Internet connection is
provided by cable to one of two ethernet ports. There is WiFi6 and Bluetooth 5.2
support but I don't use them.

## Desktop replacement alternatives

If you're looking for a desktop replacement, there are some alternatives that
come close to a full scale desktop PC. The first one is a Mac Mini or Mac
Studio. It has to be said that they aren't cheap but you can spec them out to be
quite powerful. I do not have a need for a Mac, so I wouldn't recommend them as
they aren't great value for money. The second alternative is a mini PC with an
AMD 8845HS 8 core processor or an older AMD 7940HS processor which is basically
very close to the 8845HS. These chips are very powerful and can handle most
things you throw at it. Of course, they won't be any good for machine learning
or compiling massive projects, but they are great for everyday tasks.

### ssf pcs

There are also small form factor PCs that are a bit bigger than mini PCs but
also more powerful. These are usually called small form factor PCs or SFF PCs.
They require you to pick all the components yourself, but it seems like a the
best alternative if you want a powerful gaming PC in a small form factor.
Overall this isn't the most cost effective solution, but there are some
cheap,good quality components available. I saw people building nice rigs with
[S300 8L case][2] which looks really good, is very small and isn't overly
expensive.

### Mac Mini

This month, Apple released a new Mac mini with an M4 chip. The base model is
probably the best value for money Mac mini ever released and I would seriously
consider it if I needed a Mac and was looking for a new computer. It's insanely
small with built in power supply and is very powerful. You can probably also
expect good support from Apple for the next 5-7 years, low fan noise and low
power consumption. The only downside is that upgrading RAM or storage is very
expensive.

[1]: https://www.amazon.co.uk/Windows-3750H-TRIGKEY-S3-Graphics/dp/B09MFKZFYG
[2]: https://amzn.eu/d/dQqLM3p
