---
layout : post
title  :  "Mini PC: A Powerful, Portable, and Affordable Computing Solution"
date   :   2024-02-21 19:00
tags   : [Hardware, Mini PC]
---

Several months ago I started looking for something that would replace the
sluggish Android TV system installed on my TV. After doing some research, I got
introduced to the world of mini PCs. These small form factor computers are a
great alternative to traditional desktops and laptops. They are powerful,
portable, and affordable. In this post, I will discuss the benefits of mini PCs
and why you should consider getting one.

## What is a mini pc

Mini PCs are small form factor computers that are designed to be compact. They
are usually smaller than a Mac mini. The reason why they are so small is that
they use a low-power processor, usually designed for laptops. Because they are
not so space-constrained like laptops are, they usually have better cooling
which means they can run slightly faster with better temperatures. Although
these are small very tiny PCs with laptop chips, not all of them are low
performance, low power machines. There is a wide variety of mini PCs available
in the market, ranging from low power consumption PCs ideal for server
applications to high performance desktop replacements.


## Low power consumption pc

I already have a spare desktop PC that I don't use anymore. It's a it's a nearly
10-year-old machine with an Intel Core i5 6600K processor. It's still a decent
machine, but it's not very power efficient. It consumes around 100 watts of
power when idle. I wanted to replace it with something that consumes much much
less power, so it can stay on all day without costing me too much. I started
looking for low power consumption PCs and came across the Intel N100 processor.
This chip consumes around 5-10 watts of power when idle, which is 10 times less
than my old desktop PC. Essentially, it's a modern version of the my old Skylake
processor, but with a much lower power consumption and modern features like
quick sync and hardware decoding for 4k video.

## desktop replacement options

## ssf pcs
